docs: re-add `Servers tutorial` and change code snippet (#2275)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/getting-started/servers.md

---
title: "Servers"
date: 2019-04-03T10:56:52+01:00
menu:
  docs:
    parent: 'getting-started'
weight: 110
---

In the previous lesson, you learned how to create the definition of a simple [Hello World application](/docs/getting-started/hello-world). Let's take it from there.

> In this article, you'll learn how to add `servers` to your AsyncAPI document. Adding and defining servers is useful, because it specifies where and how to connect. The connection facilitates where to send and receive messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to add `servers` to your AsyncAPI document. Adding and defining servers is useful because it specifies where and how to connect. The connection facilitates where to send and receive messages.
```

<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[6,7,8,9,10]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
servers:
  production:
    host: broker.mycompany.com
    protocol: amqp
    description: This is "My Company" broker.
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

You've now added a new section called `servers` in your AsyncAPI document.

> You might have noticed that our example mentions `amqp`. This protocol is very common and was popularized by RabbitMQ (among others). We picked `amqp` for our example, but you can use any protocol. The most common protocols used are `mqtt` (widely adopted by the Internet of Things and mobile apps), `kafka` (popular for its streaming solution), `ws` (WebSockets are frequently used in browsers), and `http` (used in HTTP streaming APIs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might have noticed that our example mentions `amqp`, a very common protocol that was popularized by RabbitMQ (among others). While our example uses `amqp`, you can use any protocol. The most common protocols used are `mqtt` (widely adopted by the Internet of Things and mobile apps), `kafka` (popular for its streaming solution), `ws` (WebSockets are frequently used in browsers), and `http` (used in HTTP streaming APIs).
```

<Remember>

The `servers` section defines where your application should connect to start sending and receiving messages. 

> 1. If you are using a <a href="https://dev.to/fmvilas/event-driven-architectures--asyncapi-db7" target="_blank" className="text-secondary-600 font-medium hover:underline">broker-centric architecture</a> such as Kafka or RabbitMQ, usually you specify the URL of the broker. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you are using a broker-centric architecture such as Kafka or RabbitMQ, specify the broker URL. 
```

not professional to link to a devto blog post, removing link

2. If you have the classic client-server model such as for REST APIs, then your `server` should be the URL of the server.

</Remember>

## Conclusion

> Now you know where `Hello world application` connects to and you can start receiving `hello {name}` messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you know where the `Hello world application` connects to, and you can start receiving `hello {name}` messages.
```

> In the next chapter, you'll learn how to add security requirements to your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next section, you'll learn how to add security requirements to your server.
```

---
title: "Servers"
date: 2019-04-03T10:56:52+01:00
menu:
  docs:
    parent: 'getting-started'
weight: 110
---

In the previous lesson, you learned how to create the definition of a simple [Hello World application](/docs/getting-started/hello-world). Let's take it from there.

In this article, you'll learn how to add `servers` to your AsyncAPI document. Adding and defining servers is useful, because it specifies where and how to connect. The connection facilitates where to send and receive messages.

> <CodeBlock highlightedLines={[6,7,8,9,10]}>
> {`asyncapi: 3.0.0
> info:
>   title: Hello world application
>   version: '0.1.0'
> 
> servers:
>   production:
>     host: broker.mycompany.com
>     protocol: amqp
>     description: This is "My Company" broker.
> 
> channels:
>   hello:
>     address: 'hello'
>     messages:
>       sayHelloMessage:
>         payload:
>           type: string
>           pattern: '^hello .+$'
> 
> operations:
>   receiveHello:
>     action: 'receive'
>     channel:
>       $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
> </CodeBlock>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[6,7,8,9,10]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
servers:
  production:
    host: broker.mycompany.com
    protocol: amqp
    description: This is "My Company" broker.
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>
```

 CodeBlock do not like empty spaces

Author: > CodeBlock do not like empty spaces 

Understood :+1: 

resolved with 780b7e0
